Before moving to Rosetti and how to develop programs for Arduino I'm going to introduce the Arduino
integrated development environment which is the development environment that is used to develop programs
for Arduino boards and systems.
So these slides provide a very simple example of a temperature sensor but you can see it in the right
side we have an arena board and here we have a temperature sensor that will connect to the arm you know.
OK so as you can see we connect the red wire to the 5 volts.
We connect the black wire to the ground as usual.
And here we are going to connect the signal wire the blue one.
It's the wire that is going to transport the signal that you provide the temperature information the
part number zero.
And here we have an analog sensor.
This example.
So it's going to be connected to the analog B and we index you know the left side you can see the Arduino
integrated development environment and later on I'm going to tell you how you can download these from
the internet and I'm going to show you some real case demonstrations but I would like just to explain
the structure and the skeleton of an Arduino program.
So for this one we're going to develop the following our program and before starting talking about the
details something that we have to know is that the Arduino it has to be important functions.
The first function is called set up and this function is used to initialize the parameters of the connection.
For example the serial connection baud rate and any information or any variable that you would like
to initialize is going to be initialized in the method set up.
So a set up is only executed once and only one time just when the program starts after being executed.
The program will never come back to the setup function.
Only if you reset and restart your program from zero.
OK after that the program is going to move to the second method that is called the method loop and this
method look is going to run forever.
This is like you have an endless loop condition.
For example it's like you have White who is going to look forever here guys.
Is the structure of Arduino programs.
So all the application logic must be defined in the method.
And of course set up and you do not take any parameters you're as you can see we're going to define
a constant variable that is called censorship and in this case the sense that print is going to be equal
to zero.
Why it is equal to zero because the signal wire that is this one is connected to the PIN number zero.
For example we have connected it to one or two or three or four or five.
These numbers should change to be exactly the same as the ping connected from here.
And then since we are connecting to and other look input.
So we're going to use the analog read method on the pin numbers.
So the number that sounds like it refers to the constant zero here and this reading is going to return
a value between 0 and 1 that you really need to convert to a voltage.
So the voltage will be equal to 5 volts because here we assume that we use 5 volts if we use the device
we need to be multiplied by three.
So if we use 5 bucks as you can observe here because that wire is connected to the pin of the five What's
the power wire.
OK we calculate the voltage then we divide by twenty four.
And this is actually the formula that is related to the temperature sensor.
Every sense that actually you extract some rote information and then you process the information to
extract the real temperature.
OK.
And then after some processing.
OK depending on the information extracted from the sensor.
So here we can extend the temperature incenses And possibly can convert the temperature into fire night.
And finally we're setting that thing to bring and display the information both in degrees and also in
fatness.
So this is a very simple program and every other program is based on the same structure.
And if you have any other sensor that you would like to use basically you can look into the Internet
and you'll find existing code that you can integrate into your application.
For example I'm going to show you if you want to program an arena program for Augustan certainly you
can do Arduino glass that's OK.
And then you would find documentation of course there are different natural gas lines and that is MQ
to five for example let's see if you find your three.
OK.
So you can find so many websites the results for you all that information about the suspect.
And usually at the end you will find code.
OK so this is how to connect the sensor using a Basic to the Arvina board.
And then you find something that you can use.
OK just you need to copy paste this one so this one is also operates on the analog input.
So it's going to be connected to a zero.
OK and you can integrate.
You can just follow the instructions and take this listen to your program and you can do the same for
any kind of sensor depending on your application.
So this was an introduction on the Arduino eat in the next video.
I'm going to develop an application that uses sensors to find to an obstacle.
I would start first by showing you how to download Arduino idea in your environment and then how to
write a program or an extension.
First of all we're going to write the program just using purely Arduino and later on we are going to
integrate this program into the Rustico system using the rest area.
So let's make it work.